# CS-305-Software-Security

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
  The client, Artemis Financial, is a consulting company that creates financial plans that are specific to their clients. With the importance of software security growing larger in today’s current cyber climate, Artemis Financial was looking to bolster its software security and modernize its operation systems to the most effective security that is current and up-to-date. The client’s web application interface currently uses the REST API, which is a step in the correct direction but was seeking expertise to examine their systems and find vulnerabilities as well as give suggestions about how to further improve the security of their systems to better protect against external threats.

# What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
  I did well when finding vulnerabilities in my client's software using the industry's best standards when coding. For instance, the REST API was used in the SslServerApplication.java file to handle requests made to the /hash endpoint using a REST Controller. REST is a common API used in web services. Using a RESTful API improves the security, scalability, and performance of any application that implements it. 
  Additionally, a checksum was used to verify the integrity of the data string output by the bytesToHex function. The purpose of this is to detect if the data has been tampered with when the data is in transit or stored. The checksum used the SHA-256 cipher algorithm to create a secure hash from the string. This hash prevents the data from being modified by an unauthorized user and prevents the application’s security from being compromised. 
    Lastly, the HTTPS protocol was used to ensure that connections to the application are secure and encrypted using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). This ensures that the data transferred between clients and the application is authentic and confidential, and attacks like man-in-the-middle are prevented. The use of certificates verified by a CA will further bolster the security of the data transfer to and from the application. HTTPS ensures that all connections to and from the application are encrypted and secure.
  The measures implemented ensure Artemis Financial’s overall well-being by securing their software in all aspects which in turn increases the quality of their software and satisfies their customer's needs. Using a common API and best practices can make it easier for the company to comply with legal and regulatory requirements and avoid run-ins with international laws and regulations. It can also reduce the possibility of receiving a security breach which can cause high costs in maintenance, dealing a blow to company revenue and even the company’s reputation. Following these best practices can ensure that a company is successful, innovative, and responsible, earning the trust and loyalty of its customers.

# What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
  Identifying false positives in the Maven dependency report and suppressing them in the supression.xml proved to help identify the vulnerabilities that mattered. However, removing all of the vulnerabilities before refactoring the code was challenging, and I could not suppress all of the vulnerabilities from the report. Therefore, I used the remaining number of vulnerabilities as a benchmark against the dependency check made after refactoring the code. 

# How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
  The security concern for this application was Cryptography and the lack of a cipher algorithm that could better protect the application. The correct use of RESTful APIs was also lacking, therefore, the ServerController class was made. In this class is a REST controller that handles requests to the /hash endpoint as well as two methods. The first method, createChecksum uses a MessageDigest object which uses the cipher algorithm SHA-256. This cipher is used to compute the hash of the data string. Then it takes the hash and converts it to a hexadecimal string using the method bytesToHex. The method takes a byte array as a parameter and uses a char array containing hexadecimal digits and a for loop. Through each iteration of the for loop, each byte is converted to two hexadecimal characters which are then appended to the char array. Once the char array is completed, it is returned as a string (checksum). 
  To address the client/server vulnerability, the application was then tested to use HTTPS so that connections to the applications were secure. This was done by first generating a self-signed certificate through the Eclipse Keytool extension. Then, the application.properties file was edited to specify port 8443 for incoming traffic, certificate alias and password, location of the keystore file, and keystore type. The checksum was first tested using HTTP and port 8080. Then, after the application.properties file was altered, HTTPS was tested, but the connection was still showing as not secure. This was because the certificate generated was a self-signed certificate not verified by a third-party CA. 
  In the future, I will use OWASP Dependency Check Maven to assess vulnerabilities in the code. Mitigation techniques for each of these vulnerabilities can be seen within the vulnerability details which link to the National Vulnerability Database (NVD). There, mitigation techniques for the vulnerability are listed which are what I will be using in the future.

# How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
  To make certain the code and software application were functional and secure, A RESTful solution was added to the code during the refactorization process. Before the code was refactored, a dependency check was run, and vulnerabilities were suppressed in the suppression.xml file. However, some vulnerabilities continued to show even though they were inserted into the XML file, so those results were compared to the dependency check after the code was refactored. After running the dependency check post-code refactor, there were no new vulnerabilities that needed to be suppressed. This meant that no new vulnerabilities resulted from the refactoring of the code, ensuring it was secure.

# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
  Using OWASP Dependency Check Maven to check for vulnerabilities in my code will be helpful in future assignments. Also, using the Keytool extension in Eclipse IDE was very useful for creating certificates needed for HTTPS connections and will also prove useful in future assignments, as it ensures the information transmitted or stored is secure and encrypted. Finally, the Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow Diagram can be used to determine which of the seven areas of security to consider for my assignments and will work to my benefit.

# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
  In the two assignments submitted into this repository, there are a few things I may show future employers. First, being able to use important tools like Owasp Dependency Check Maven to identify vulnerabilities in the code and identify solutions for them in the NVD can show my ability to find and suppress security vulnerabilities. Using industry best practices when creating code and finding and implementing a RESTful solution for my client's software shows my ability to code securely. Conveying my knowledge and understanding to recommend a secure cipher algorithm to create a checksum to better secure data being sent or received using HTTPS can show my knowledge of cryptography. Combining all of my findings into a secure software report for the client to refer to shows my knowledge of software security and why it is paramount to the success of any company using a web application to do business with their customers.
